---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
<p style="color: #4285F4">I'm looking for a postdoc/research scientist position to round out my research portfolio. If you have any leads on these positions please let me know!</p>
<p>Hi there! I'm Ei Pa, a postdoctoral associate at the <a href="https://www.isri.cmu.edu/">Institute for Software Research (ISR)</a> in the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University, where I'm proudly mentored by <a href="https://herbsleb.org/">James Herbsleb</a>.</p>
<p><u><b>RESEARCH</b></u>. I do interdisciplinary research that intersects several disciplines including computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW), science and technologies studies (STS) and critical human-computer interaction (HCI), and especially investigates how to better design, develop, maintain, evolve and assure the quality of distributed software systems, addressing <span style="color: #4285F4">reusability, recombinality, sustainability/resilience, and scalability <u>rather than usability/ease of use</u></span>.</p>
<p><u><b>METHODS</b></u>. I use empirical research approaches to solve complex sociotechnical problems, and the solutions and problem-solving experiences add my store of knowledge about the distributed software systems. The methods that I use include ethnography (interviews and non-participant observations), case study, archival analysis, quantitative collection of log and trace data with Python, SQL, and R, and a combination of all of these methods (mixed-methods) as appropriate and relevant.</p>
<p><u><b>CURRENT PROJECT</b></u>. My current investigation is around large scale coordination in software development teams in time-bounded events known as <a href="https://eipapa.github.io/hackathon-planning-kit/hackathons/">hackathons</a>. Depending on the hackathon design, teams may be consisting of existing or flash/new, distributed or collocated, and building software or non-software artifacts, having diverse goals and objectives, and are working in extremely compressed time scale. The two projects that I am currently working on are:
<ul>
    <li><b>TrackHack</b>. This project aims to trace the spread of code from GitHub hackahton projects listed on DevPost to investigate <span style="color: #b00">where the code comes from and where the code lives after the hackathon</span>.</li>
    <li><b>GitHub for non-code</b>. This project aims to extract a list of GitHub open-text projects and zoom into the representative candidates to identify best practices for writing with GitHub and provide effective procedures and guidelines for <span style="color: #085">open collaborative writing</span>.</li>
</ul>
</p>
<p><u><b>EDUCATION</b></u>. I received a bachelor's degree in computer science from the University of Computer Studies, Yangon (UCSY), Myanmar, and a master's and Ph.D. from Nanyang Technological University (NTU) in Singapore, Singapore.</p>
<p>Choosing a master's degree in information systems, a joint program of NTU's School of Computer Engineering and Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information, and a phd in information science/studies from Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information was a huge mistake of my life. I realized, as I learned more and more about the scientific computing world, these programs had swayed and clouded my believe and understanding about research, computing, and the world in general with non-scientific quasi thoughts. I will write a blog post about my experience with these programs in details when I have more free time. For now I will leave a food for thought here, <u>What is the role of "mentors" in education of any fields? What is the meaning of "openness" in scholarly communication?</u></p>
<p><u><b>EXPERIENCE</b></u>. When in Myanmar, I was a tutor at the Software Department at UCSY where I mainly taught the data structures course to first-year and sophomores, and a number of classes on operating systems to juniors. Before PhD at NTU, I spent 13 months employed as an application consultant at NCS, where my role involves coding, running patches, and providing customer support to the accounting module of an online outpatient administrative system that interfaces both with a superior trusted SAP accounting software used by SingHealth's hospitals and with the system's claim module which then interfaces with the government claim system and other systems used by several insurance companies in SingHealth's network. The outpatient administrative system itself is developed using Microsoft's .NET framework and SQL server. I also developed a customer feedback tool for the system.</p>
<p><u><b>NEW WORK</b></u>. If you're interested in <b>my new work</b>, read <a href="https://eipapa.github.io/publications" style="color: #085">my most recent papers</a>. You can also reach out to me at <a href="">eipa [at] cmu [dot] edu</a>.</p>